
Most of the keyboard shortcuts in NEdit-ng are shown on the right hand
sides of the pull-down menus. However, there are more which are not as
obvious. These include; dialog button shortcuts; menu and dialog
mnemonics; labeled keyboard keys, such as the arrows, Page Up, Page
Down, and Home; and optional Shift modifiers on accelerator keys, like
\[Shift\] Ctrl + F.

## Menu Accelerators

Pressing the key combinations shown on the right of the menu items is a
shortcut for selecting the menu item with the mouse. Some items have the
shift key enclosed in brackets, such as \[Shift\] Ctrl + F. This
indicates that the shift key is optional. In Search commands including
the shift key reverses the direction of the search. In Shift commands,
it makes the command shift the selected text by a whole tab stop rather
than by single characters.

## Menu Mnemonics

Pressing the Alt key in combination with one of the underlined
characters in the menu bar pulls down that menu. Once the menu is pulled
down, typing the underlined characters in a menu item (without the Alt
key) activates that item. With a menu pulled down, you can also use the
arrow keys to select menu items, and the Space or Enter keys to activate
them.

## Keyboard Shortcuts within Dialogs

One button in a dialog is usually marked with a highlighted outline.
Pressing the Return or Enter key activates this button.

All dialogs have either a Cancel or Close button. This button can be
activated by pressing the Escape (or Esc) key.

Pressing the Tab key moves the keyboard focus to the next item in a
dialog. Within an associated group of buttons, the arrow keys move the
focus among the buttons. Shift + Tab moves backward through the items.

Many items in dialogs have an underline under one character in their
name. Pressing the Alt key along with this character, activates a button
as if you had pressed it with the mouse, or moves the keyboard focus to
the associated text field or list.

You can select items from a list by using the arrow keys to move the
selection and space to select.

In file selection dialogs, you can type the beginning characters of the
file name or directory in the list to select files.

## Labeled Function Keys

The labeled function keys on standard workstation and PC keyboards, like
the arrows, and Page Up and Page Down, are active in NEdit-ng, though
not shown in the pull-down menus.

Holding down the Ctrl key while pressing a named key extends the scope
of the action that it performs. For example, Home normally moves the
insert cursor the beginning of a line. Ctrl + Home moves it to the
beginning of the file. Backspace deletes one character, Ctrl + Backspace
deletes one word.

Holding down the Shift key while pressing a named key begins or extends
a selection. Combining the shift and control keys combines their
actions. For example, to select a word without using the mouse, position
the cursor at the beginning of the word and press Ctrl + Shift + Right
Arrow. The Alt key modifies selection commands to make the selection
rectangular.

Your operating system may perform several levels of translation between
keyboard keys and the actions they perform in a program. The
"[Customizing NEdit-ng](28.md)", and "[Config Entries](30.md)" help sections
have more information on this subject. Because of all of this
configurability, and since keyboards and standards for the meaning of
some keys vary from machine to machine, the mappings may be changed from
the defaults listed below.

## Modifier Keys (in general)

  - Ctrl  
    Extends the scope of the action that the key would otherwise
    perform. For example, Home normally moves the insert cursor to the
    beginning of a line. Ctrl + Home moves it to the beginning of the
    file. Backspace deletes one character, Ctrl + Backspace deletes one
    word.
  - Shift  
    Extends the selection to the cursor position. If there's no
    selection, begins one between the old and new cursor positions.
  - Alt  
    When modifying a selection, makes the selection rectangular.

(For the effects of modifier keys on mouse button presses, see the
section titled "[Using the Mouse](05.md)")

## All Keyboards

  - Escape  
    Cancels operation in progress: menu selection, drag, selection, etc.
    Also equivalent to Cancel or Close button in dialogs.
  - Backspace  
    Delete the character before the cursor
  - Ctrl + Backspace  
    Delete the word before the cursor
  - Left  
    Move the cursor to the left one character
  - Ctrl + Left  
    Move the cursor backward one word (Word delimiters are settable, see
    "[Customizing NEdit-ng](28.md)", and "[Config Entries](30.md)")
  - Right  
    Move the cursor to the right one character
  - Ctrl + Right  
    Move the cursor forward one word
  - Up  
    Move the cursor up one line
  - Ctrl + Up  
    Move the cursor up one paragraph. (Paragraphs are delimited by blank
    lines)
  - Down  
    Move the cursor down one line.
  - Ctrl + Down  
    Move the cursor down one paragraph.
  - Ctrl + Return  
    Return with automatic indent, regardless of the setting of Auto
    Indent.
  - Shift + Return  
    Return without automatic indent, regardless of the setting of Auto
    Indent.
  - Ctrl + Tab  
    Insert an ASCII tab character, without processing emulated tabs.
  - Ctrl + Alt + \<C\>  
    Insert the control-code equivalent of a key \<C\>
  - Ctrl + /  
    Select everything (same as Select All menu item or Ctrl + A)
  - Ctrl + \\  
    Unselect
  - Ctrl + U  
    Delete to start of line

## PC Standard Keyboard

  - Ctrl + Insert  
    Copy the primary selection to the clipboard (same as Copy menu item
    or Ctrl + C)
  - Ctrl + Shift +Insert  
    Copy the primary selection to the cursor location.
  - Delete  
    Delete the character before the cursor. (Can be configured to delete
    the character after the cursor, see "[Customizing NEdit-ng](28.md)",
    and "[Config Entries](30.md)")
  - Ctrl + Delete  
    Delete to end of line.
  - Shift + Delete  
    Cut, remove the currently selected text and place it in the
    clipboard. (same as Cut menu item or Ctrl + X)
  - Ctrl + Shift + Delete  
    Cut the primary selection to the cursor location.
  - Home  
    Move the cursor to the beginning of the line
  - Ctrl + Home  
    Move the cursor to the beginning of the file
  - End  
    Move the cursor to the end of the line
  - Ctrl + End  
    Move the cursor to the end of the file
  - Page Up  
    Scroll and move the cursor up by one page.
  - Page Down  
    Scroll and move the cursor down by one page.
  - Alt  
    Make the menu bar active for keyboard input (Arrow Keys, Return,
    Escape, and the Space Bar)
  - Alt + Home  
    Switch to the previously active document.
  - Ctrl + Page Up  
    Switch to the previous document.
  - Ctrl + Page Down  
    Switch to the next document.

## Specialty Keyboards

On machines with different styles of keyboards, generally, text editing
actions are properly matched to the labeled keys, such as Remove,
Next-screen, etc.. If you prefer different key bindings, see the section
titled "[Key Binding](31.md)" under the Customizing heading in the
Help menu.
