
Programmers who use structured languages usually require some form of
automatic indent, so that they don't have to continually re-type the
sequences of tabs and/or spaces needed to maintain lengthy running
indents. NEdit-ng therefore offers "smart" indent, in addition to the
traditional automatic indent which simply lines up the cursor position
with the previous line.

## Smart Indent

Smart indent macros are only available by default for C and C++, and
while these can easily be configured for different default indentation
distances, they may not conform to everyone's exact C programming style.
Smart indent is programmed in terms of macros in the NEdit-ng macro
language which can be entered in: Preferences &rarr; Default Settings
&rarr; Indent &rarr; Program Smart Indent. Hooks are provided for
intervening at the point that a newline is entered, either via the user
pressing the Enter key, or through auto-wrapping; and for arbitrary
type-in to act on specific characters typed.

To type a newline character without invoking smart-indent when operating
in smart-indent mode, hold the Shift key while pressing the Return or
Enter key.

## Auto-Indent

With Indent set to Auto (the default), NEdit-ng keeps a running indent.
When you press the Return or Enter key, spaces and tabs are inserted to
line up the insert point under the start of the previous line.

Regardless of indent-mode, Ctrl + Return always does the automatic
indent; Shift + Return always does a return without indent.

## Block Indentation Adjustment

The Shift Left and Shift Right commands as well as rectangular dragging
can be used to adjust the indentation for several lines at once. To
shift a block of text one character to the right, select the text, then
choose Shift Right from the Edit menu. Note that the accelerator keys
for these menu items are Ctrl+9 and Ctrl+0, which correspond to the
right and left parenthesis on most keyboards. Remember them as adjusting
the text in the direction pointed to by the parenthesis character.
Holding the Shift key while selecting either Shift Left or Shift Right
will shift the text by one tab stop (or by one emulated tab stop if tab
emulation is turned on). The help section "Shifting and Filling" under
"Basic Operation" has details.
